README.md, before:

# CrossSearchCrawler [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/rywils21/CrossSearchCrawler.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/rywils21/CrossSearchCrawler)

CrossSearchCrawler began as a web crawler for IEEE xplore and ACM digital libraries. It is much much easier to traverse those sites manually and download the citation information from searches. Thus, this tool is now just a citation data aggregation and analysis tool for searches from IEEE xplore.

# Usage
Starting from scratch? Build the entire database and generate all reports by executing this command from the src folder of this project:

```shell
	python main.py do-everything ../searchesFrom_1998/(csv file here)
```

Of course, substitute the python call with the call to run python files on your machine. Python 3 is required.

./searchesFrom_1998 is a folder that contains data files downloaded from IEEE xplore. You can of course use any CSV files downloaded from there as your source. More on that later.


Other commands that are available are:


```shell
	python main.py report-crossover
```

report-crossover does not load any files. It simply generates a crossover report of all the data currently populated in the database.


```shell
	python main.py report-by-year
```

report-by-year does not load any files. It simply generates a report showing how many results there were for each search query compared to years.


```shell
	python main.py report-by-authors
```

report-by-authors does not load any files. It simply generates a report showing the count of contributing authors for each search query.


```shell
	python main.py compile-folder /path/to/folder/ /output/file/name/
```

This command is used to compile a folder of small CSV files into a single larger CSV file. This was created in order to compile search results from multiple files that were produced from the same search. This is needed when a single search returns more than 2,000 results, and results must be downloaded page by page.


```shell
	python main.py validate-csv /path/to/folder/
```

validate-csv validates csv files within the folder that give to it. This is needed because IEEE xplore escapes commas with double quote characters. Sometimes the way the escaping is done breaks valid CSV. Thus, raw data downloaded from IEEE xplore must be validated to ensure that it will work with this script.


```shell
	python main.py load /path/to/folder/
```

load loads data from files in the input folder and puts those entries into the database. It is assumed that the only files in the folder are validated (using validate-csv) CSV files downloaded from IEEE xplore.

# Shell Commands
The shell can be used for doing queries on the fly and for comparing the overlap between any number of searches. Searches are done by the database id. To start the shell, from the src directory, run:

```shell
python main.py shell
```
or
```shell
python shell.py
```
Both commands will take you to the same place. None of the shell commands are case sensitive. Once you're in the shell, here's what you can do:

To get out of the shell, you can use 'q', 'quit',  or 'exit'.
```shell 
>q
>Q
>quit
>Quit
>exit
>Exit
```
Any of those will work.

To get the overlap of any number of searches, use 'count':
```shell 
>count ID1 ID2 ... IDn
```
This command will get the number of publications that were returned for any combination of searches. The search ids in this command are separated by whitespace.

To get a list of the search query's IDs, just type 'search-ids' or 'ids'.
```shell 
>search-ids
```
This will return a list of all of the ids mapped to their search query for all the saved searches in the database.

Don't want to have to print that every time to look up an id? Keep it handy by saving it to a file with 'save-searchids' or 'save-ids':
```shell 
>save-ids /path/to/file
```
This command will take that same list printed by 'search-ids' and save it to a file for you to keep open for reference.

Want to see actual publication information from overlap queries instead of just the count? You're in luck! Use 'save-count'
```shell 
>save-count /path/to/file ID1 ID2 ... IDn
```
This will find the overlap between any number of search IDs and print the publications id, title, year, and doi to the output file that you gave the path of.

Confused while in the shell? Type 'help' to get this same explanation right there!
```shell 
>help
```

That's pretty much it for now. This will get expanded as more features are added.

Commit message:

Added show-annual command to analyze how overlap changes over time.

README.md, after:

# CrossSearchCrawler [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/rywils21/CrossSearchCrawler.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/rywils21/CrossSearchCrawler)

CrossSearchCrawler began as a web crawler for IEEE xplore and ACM digital libraries. It is much much easier to traverse those sites manually and download the citation information from searches. Thus, this tool is now just a citation data aggregation and analysis tool for searches from IEEE xplore.

# Usage
Starting from scratch? Build the entire database and generate all reports by executing this command from the src folder of this project:

```shell
	python main.py do-everything ../searchesFrom_1998/(csv file here)
```

Of course, substitute the python call with the call to run python files on your machine. Python 3 is required.

./searchesFrom_1998 is a folder that contains data files downloaded from IEEE xplore. You can of course use any CSV files downloaded from there as your source. More on that later.


Other commands that are available are:


```shell
	python main.py report-crossover
```

report-crossover does not load any files. It simply generates a crossover report of all the data currently populated in the database.


```shell
	python main.py report-by-year
```

report-by-year does not load any files. It simply generates a report showing how many results there were for each search query compared to years.


```shell
	python main.py report-by-authors
```

report-by-authors does not load any files. It simply generates a report showing the count of contributing authors for each search query.


```shell
	python main.py compile-folder /path/to/folder/ /output/file/name/
```

This command is used to compile a folder of small CSV files into a single larger CSV file. This was created in order to compile search results from multiple files that were produced from the same search. This is needed when a single search returns more than 2,000 results, and results must be downloaded page by page.


```shell
	python main.py validate-csv /path/to/folder/
```

validate-csv validates csv files within the folder that give to it. This is needed because IEEE xplore escapes commas with double quote characters. Sometimes the way the escaping is done breaks valid CSV. Thus, raw data downloaded from IEEE xplore must be validated to ensure that it will work with this script.


```shell
	python main.py load /path/to/folder/
```

load loads data from files in the input folder and puts those entries into the database. It is assumed that the only files in the folder are validated (using validate-csv) CSV files downloaded from IEEE xplore.

# Shell Commands
The shell can be used for doing queries on the fly and for comparing the overlap between any number of searches. Searches are done by the database id. To start the shell, from the src directory, run:

```shell
python main.py shell
```
or
```shell
python shell.py
```
Both commands will take you to the same place. None of the shell commands are case sensitive. Once you're in the shell, here's what you can do:

To get out of the shell, you can use 'q', 'quit',  or 'exit'.
```shell 
>q
>Q
>quit
>Quit
>exit
>Exit
```
Any of those will work.

To get the overlap of any number of searches, use 'count':
```shell 
>count ID1 ID2 ... IDn
```
This command will get the number of publications that were returned for any combination of searches. The search ids in this command are separated by whitespace.

To get a list of the search query's IDs, just type 'search-ids' or 'ids'.
```shell 
>search-ids
```
This will return a list of all of the ids mapped to their search query for all the saved searches in the database.

Don't want to have to print that every time to look up an id? Keep it handy by saving it to a file with 'save-searchids' or 'save-ids':
```shell 
>save-ids /path/to/file
```
This command will take that same list printed by 'search-ids' and save it to a file for you to keep open for reference.

Want to see actual publication information from overlap queries instead of just the count? You're in luck! Use 'save-count'
```shell 
>save-count /path/to/file ID1 ID2 ... IDn
```
This will find the overlap between any number of search IDs and print the publications id, title, year, and doi to the output file that you gave the path of.

Want to see how many publications 2 queries have in common per year?
```shell 
>print-annual ID1 ID2
```
This will print the search text of queries ID1 and ID2, then show how many publications the two have in common each year.

Confused while in the shell? Type 'help' to get this same explanation right there!
```shell 
>help
```

That's pretty much it for now. This will get expanded as more features are added.
